# Non-Uniform-Chromosomal-SNP-Density-Biases-Sites-of-Meiotic-Crossovers
Dopamine serves dual functional roles in Drosophila, as a neurotransmitter in the central nervous system (CNS), and as a precursor for molecules required for cuticular hardening and pigmentation, the latter being crucial for fly viability. By selectively restoring cuticular dopamine synthesis in a dopamine-deficient background, we generated viable flies entirely lacking CNS dopamine. As expected, these flies initially showed reduced locomotor activity. Surprisingly, we identified a sub-line with normal activity levels despite a complete deficiency of CNS dopamine. To identify the genetic factor(s) responsible for this trait, we utilized a Genome-Wide Association Study (GWAS), mapping the trait to a roughly 3.5 mega-base (Mb) region of the X-chromosome. However, this mapping yielded ~5-fold lower resolution than anticipated, due to an uneven distribution of Single Nucleotide Polymorphisms (SNPs) between the X-chromosomes of the two recombining lines. This uneven SNP distribution was associated with recombination events biased towards regions of low SNP density, and away from the more SNP dense regions associating with the activity phenotype. Additionally, we observed crossover hotspots with a highly nonrandom distribution of crossovers within the SNP dense regions. These findings highlight challenges in Drosophila GWAS in situations where altered SNP density can skew recombination, complicating trait localization. Addressing these biases in recombination distribution is crucial for improving GWAS resolution in Drosophila, when the recombining strains contain non-uniformly distributed SNPs.

